### MOHAWK INDUSTRIES: Legal Litigation Likelihood and Severity Classification and Regression Analysis Report. 

### EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
- The financial dataset represents business information for over 2,600 US and international corporations worldwide from 2009 to 2014 fiscal years. Information is collected from multiple sources including companies’ financial data, government ratings, securities and the SCA filing and settlements public data for companies that have been historically subject to litigation. The goal of this report is to identify and examine the potential risk factors associated with shareholders legal actions against MOHAWK INDUSTRIES. Understanding the risk factors of litigation will better prepare the organization financially and legally by mitigating these threats in the short and long term, and potentially enroll in lawsuit insurance programs suitable for the business. 

- Over the course of this analysis, methods used for exploratory data analysis and aggregation, feature selection, data imputation and normalization techniques, hyperparameter optimization, and implementation of several algorithms for classification and regression problems will be discussed. This report evaluates the performances of K-Nearest Neighbors, Random Forest, and Support Vector Machine algorithms on classifying MOHAWK INDUSTRIES likelihood of litigation. The report also provides severity estimation of lawsuit amount in U.S dollars, by assessing the accuracy performances of Lasso and Ridge regressions, Gradient Boosted Machine, Bagging and Random Forest methods.

- Using the Random Forest classifier as the primary model for binary classification of litigation likelihood, the model performs 90% precision, followed by SVM and K-NN with 88% and 79% respectively. The rate of true positive instances for Random Forest achieved 90.3%, followed by 82% for SVM and 80.4% for K-NN. While the accuracy of the model is important, the sensitivity metric must not be overlooked because correctly identifying the positive instances of litigation likelihood is vital for MOHAWK INDUSTRIES’s ability to manage legal risks. Contrary to K-Nearest Neighbor, Random Forest and Support Vector Machine predict that MOHAWK INDUSTRIES will NOT be subject to litigation. 

- Tree based models like Boosted Trees and Random Forest obtained lower test errors than Lasso and Ridge regularizations as regressors. Most likely due to the small dimensions of the data, as it contains only 37 companies. In terms of lawsuit settlement amount cost, MOHAWK INDUSTRIES is forecasted to pay a range between $20,000,000 and $57,000,000 dollars, based on the estimates obtained by the regression models. When taking into consideration the cumulative average estimate for Random Forest, Bagging, GBM, Lasso and Ridge regressors, the mean severity evaluation is $33,663,115 with median $27,441,548 US dollars.

- MOHAWK INDUSTRIES is encouraged to focus on risk factors such as long and short deferred tax assets, average total returns, total investments, capital gains and losses, market value, debt, equity, credit rating, stock prices, inventory and equity, retained earnings, marketable securities, and cash flow. Moreover, it’s critical to mitigate executive threats including illegal behaviours, inadequate controls, negligence and ineffective decisions. This analysis must take into account the limitations of the financial data available, weaknesses and strengths of the machine learning models, and the utilization of more complex predictive algorithms such as Artificial Neural Networks, PCA for dimensionality reduction and model stacking strategies in future analyses.
